DZ-1</br>
fofonred@rambler.ru</br>
linux ubuntu/ ruby sublime</br>
Опыт лет8, начал изучение вебразработки с Joomla, потом Wp, Modex, был проект полностью на php+mysql со своей админкой. Случайно попал на сайт гигбрайнс и увидел курс по руби, ранее с данным языком не сталкивался.</br>
</br>

DZ-2</br>
1) Assign the variable x to the value 5.</br>

x = 5</br>

2) What is the datatype of "Matt"?</br>

String</br>

3) x = 5. Is x a string?</br>
no, Scalars Fixnum</br>

4) What does this expression evaluate to?</br>

"YO" + "LO" => "YOLO"</br>

5) What does this expression evaluate to?</br>

"Cool".+("io") => "Coolio"</br>

6) What does this expression evaluate to?</br>

"bob" + 42 => TypeError</br>

7) What does this expression evaluate to?</br>

a = "Bat"</br>
b = "woman"</br>
a + b => "Batwoman"</br>

8) What does this expression print?</br>

my_name = "50 Cent"</br>
my_name = "Miley"</br>
p my_name          =>"Miley"</br>

9) Get the first letter from the string "Jaydakiss".</br>

"Jaydakiss"[0] => "J"</br>

10) Get the first through 3rd elements from the "Jaydakiss" string.</br>

"Jaydakiss"[2] => "y"</br>

11) Get the last element from the "Jaydakiss" string.</br>

"Jaydakiss"[-1] => "y"</br>

12) Replace the "l" in the following string with "m":</br>

word = "lace"</br>

13) Assign the variable my_dawg to the value "DMX"</br>

my_dawg="DMX"</br>

14) What does the following expression evaluate to?</br>

"Dead Poet" = fav_bar</br>

15) What does the following expression print?</br>

something = "cats"</br>
crazy = something</br>
puts crazy        =>"Cats"</br>

16) What does the following expression evaluate to?</br>

3 + 4 => 7</br>

17) What does the following expression evaluate to?</br>

4 * 7 => 28</br>

18) What does the following expression evaluate to?</br>

2 ** 3 => 8</br>

19) What does the following expression evaluate to?</br>

8 / 2 => 8</br>

20) What does the following expression evaluate to?</br>

3 / 2 => 1</br>

21) What does the following expression evaluate to?</br>

3.0 / 2.0 => 1.5</br>


22) What does the following expression evaluate to?</br>

"i am not shouting".upcase() => "I AM NOT SHOUTING"</br>

23) Convert every letter of "YoLo BrAh" to lowercase.</br>

nice = "YoLo BrAh"</br>
nice.downcase => "yolo brah"</br>

24) Concatenate the following strings:</br>

first = "Beautiful "</br>
second = "face tattoo"</br>
first + second => "Beautiful face tattoo"</br>

25) Convert the number 5 to the string "5".</br>

5.to-s => "5"</br>

26) What is the problem with the following code?</br>

my variable = "Mr. White" - будет ошибка, что метод my не найдет, если поставить нижнее подчеркивание my_variable
то выйдет следующее => "Mr. White"</br>

27) Update the code, so it can run successfully:</br>

band = "Blink" + 182</br>

band = "Blink" + "182" => "Blink182"</br>

28) my_array is an array with the values "matt" and "phil". Arrays are collections of values:</br>

my_array = ["matt", "phil"]</br>
Create an array with the values 1 and 2.</br>
my_array ["1", "2"]</br>

29) Create an array with nothing inside it.</br>

my_array [""]</br>

30) Create an Array that contains the values "mike tyson", 89, and 9.7.</br>

my_array = ["mike tyson", "89", "9.7"]</br>

31) Identify the components of the following expression:</br>

students = ["mary", "kathy", "frank"]  => ["mary", "kathy", "frank"] 
</br>

32) What does the following expression return:</br>

["uno", "dos", "tres"].length() => return length array 3</br>

33) Is this array valid? </br>

Yes</br>
name = "clem"</br>
age = 32</br>
[name, age] => ["clem", 32]</br>

34) Get the first element of the lyric Array.</br>

lyric = ["laughter", "it's", "free"]</br>

35) Get the last element of the lyric Array.</br>

lyric = ["laughter", "it's", "free"]</br>

36) Add the string "open up shop" to the end of the ruff Array.</br>

ruff = ["stop", "drop", "shut 'em down"]</br>

37) What does the following expression evaluate to?</br>

5 == 5 => true</br>

38) What does the following expression evaluate to?</br>

true = 6 => error</br>

39) Demonstrate that "matt" is the same as "matt".</br>

40) What does the following expression evaluate to?</br>

4 != 4 => false</br>

41) What does the following expression evaluate to?</br>

5 > 4 => true</br>

42) What does the following expression print?</br>

if 5 > 4</br>
  puts "5 is greater than 4"</br>
end</br>
=> "5 is greater than 4"</br>

43) What does the following expression print?</br>

if 5 < 4</br>
  puts "5 is less than 4"</br>
else</br>
  puts "5 is not less than 4"</br>
end</br>
=> "5 is not less than 4"</br>

44) What does the following expression print?</br>

if "sam" == "cat"</br>
  puts "sam equals cat"</br>
elsif "matt" == "matt"</br>
  puts "matt equals matt"</br>
else</br>
  puts "whatever"</br>
end</br>
=> "matt equals matt"</br>

45) What does the following expression print?</br>

if 5</br>
  puts "Hello there"</br>
end</br>
=> "Hello there"</br>

46) What does the following expression print?</br>

if "bob"</br>
  puts "bob is truthy"</br>
else</br>
  puts "bob is falsey"</br>
end</br>
=> "bob is truthy"</br>

47) What does the following expression print?</br>

if nil</br>
  puts "nil is truthy"</br>
else</br>
  puts "nil is falsey"</br>
end</br>
=> "nil is falsey"</br>

48) What does the following expression print?</br>

puts "This syntax is cool" if true</br>
=> "This syntax is cool"</br>

49) What does the following expression print?</br>

puts "Tall buildings" if false =>nil</br>

50) What is the value of x?</br>

x = 5</br>
x = x + 1 => 6</br>

51) What is the value of mode?</br>

mode = "chill"</br>
mode += "hippie"</br>
+= is a shorthand operator.</br>

52) What does the following code print?</br>

counter = 0</br>
while counter < 3</br>
  puts "Went through the loop"</br>
  counter = counter + 1</br>
end</br>
=>"Went through the loopWent through the loopWent through the loop"</br>

53) What does the following code print?</br>

while 3 > 15</br>
  puts "This is the end"</br>
end</br>
=>nil</br>

54) What does the following code print?</br>

while true</br>
  puts "This is the song that never ends"</br>
end</br>
=> OutOfMemoryError</br>
